\documentclass{40k}

\begin{document}%

\pagetitle{Frequently Asked Questions}

\begin{columns}

  The following are common or expected questions about the special
  play style and rules for the unofficial \emph{Recon Squad} skirmish
  variant\footnote{\url{http://rocketshipgames.com/games/recon-squad/}}
  of Games Workshop's \emph{Warhammer 40,000}.

% Note that these themselves are not normative
% rules, they're just providing more specific notes and examples on
% how the Recon Squad rules play out.

  Many of these are due to the Army Of One rule dividing standard
  multi-model units into singe model units in Recon Squad, the
  defining feature of skirmish level 40k.  This is problematic when a
  single model, like an upgrade character, or individual piece of
  wargear provides special rules to the whole squad.  Those rules
  would no longer apply to any models except the special one or
  wargear bearer, as they would would be in a separate unit from their
  squadmates.  However, in those cases, the Side Effects rule for
  Recon Squad enables those models from the squad within~3'' of the
  source to use the effect.  It also applies those rules before
  deployment, e.g., to infiltrate.

  \bigskip%
  Further questions should be brought up on the Philadelphia Area
  Gaming Enthusiasts' forum:
  \centerline{\url{http://pagegaming.com/forums/}}

\missionheading{Army Selection}%

\smallskip\noindent\emph{Do normal build requirements apply other than
  the restrictions here? For example, do I need to select a Necron
  Overloard to take a Royal Court?  Or a Space Marine Captain to take
  a Command Squad?}

Yes, all of these rules still apply.


\smallskip\noindent\emph{Are units that don't occupy a FOC slot, like
  Space Marine Servitors, Necron Royal Courts, and dedicated
  transports, allowed?}

Yes, following the usual restrictions and rules.


\bigskip\missionheading{Traits}%

\smallskip\noindent\emph{Does choosing Scout as a specialist trait
  permit the model to be placed into Reserve and then Outflank?}

- No.  Only mission specific rules and the Tactical Genius strategem
permit placing units in reserve, as per the No Holding Back rule.

\smallskip\noindent\emph{Do the Sniper and Tank Hunter specialist
  traits only apply to one weapon, like many of the others?}

- No, they are intentionally not marked as such.  All the model's
possible attacks benefit.

\smallskip\noindent\emph{When exactly are stratagems declared?}

- After the winner of the roll-off to determine deployment order has
decided to go first or second, but before either player begins
deployment.  I.e., you will know whether or not Just As Planned is
applicable.

\missionheading{Game Rules}%

\smallskip\noindent\emph{Are conjurations permitted?}

- No, units may not be summoned.  The Help's Not Coming rule
implicitly prohibits all conjurations.

\smallskip\noindent\emph{Can witchfire shots be divided as per Recon Squad's Unload rule?}

- Yes.

\missionheading{Necrons}%

\smallskip\noindent\emph{How do Necron Reanimation Protocols and
  Resurrection Orbs work here?}

- Following the Codex Specific Adaptations for Necrons, casualties are
marked directly rather than putting a counter on their unit since the
latter doesn't exist in Recon Squad due to the Army Of One rule.
Reanimation Protocol rolls may be made for those marked casualties
within~3'' of a friendly Necron model not also marked as a casualty.
On success the model stands back up with~1 wound remaining and the
counter is removed.  On failure both model and counter are removed.

Applying the Recon Squad Side Effects rule, if the marked model was
part of a unit selection in the original army list with a Resurrection
Orb, its Reanimation Roll passes on a~4+ instead of a~5+ if the
Resurrection Orb is within~3'' of the marked casualty.

  \smallskip\noindent\emph{Is line of sight or movement blocked by
    Necron models killed but marked with counters to potentially
    reanimate instead of removing?}

  - No.  If enemy models move within~1'' of the marked model simply
  move it and its counter the shortest distance to keept it 1'' away
  from all enemy models and not in impassible terrain.


\missionheading{Astra Militarum}%

\smallskip\noindent\emph{How does Commissars' Summary Execution
  apply?}

- Due to the Side Effects rule, anytime a model from the Commissar's
original army list selection fails a morale test while within~3'' of
the Commissar, that model is removed as a casualty.  That's pretty
harsh, so Guardsmen worried they might look weak in front of the
Commissar should stay~4'' away!  Note that due to the We All Die Alone
rule, Independent Character Commissars simply don't apply Summary
Execution---they cannot be part of a unit.

% \smallskip\noindent\emph{How does Sgt Harker work, given Army Of One?}
% - The Side Effects rule grants models from his squad the Stealth and
%   Move Through Cover USRs whenever he is within 3".  In addition it
%   enables all members of his squad to Infiltrate during deployment.

\smallskip\noindent\emph{How do Medi-Packs work?}

- Any models from the medic's original army list selection have Feel
No Pain while within~3'' of him, due to the Side Effects rule.

\missionheading{Orks}%

\smallskip\noindent\emph{How do Boss Poles work?}

- Due to the Side Effects rule, whenever a model from an army list
selection including a Bosspole fails a morale test while within~3'' of
the Nob with the Bosspolle, that model may take a wound (and the save
against it) in order to reroll the morale test.

\smallskip\noindent\emph{How does Snikrot work?}

- All the models from his original army list selection would have the
Move Through Cover rule while within~3'' of Snikrot.  Unless the
mission notes otherwise, they would not be able to deploy in reserve
due to the No Holding Back rule.  However, if the missions permits
reserves, they would all be able to enter from any table edge as the
Side Effects rule confers his Ambush rule to the other units in his
army list selection before deployment.  Similarly, when deploying on
the table, they may all Infiltrate.


\missionheading{Chaos Daemons}%

\smallskip\noindent\emph{How do Pink Horrors of Tzeentch work?}

- Due to the Army Of One rule, Brotherhood of Psykers/Sorcerors would
not apply directly.  However, the Cast A Spell On You rule adapts
Brotherhood such that on each turn, one Pink Horror per army list
selection would be able to make the Horrors' psychic shooting attack.
This is resolved as usual.


\missionheading{Space Marines}%

\smallskip\noindent\emph{How does Sgt Telion work?}

- Like a badass.  Any scout from his squad within~3'' of him receives
the Stealth USR.  Further, if he does not shoot or run in a shooting
phase, one scout within~3'' of him may use his ballistic skill, per
his Voice of Experience rule adapted by Side Effects.

\end{columns}

\end{document}
